FilePlanDescriptors for RetentionLabels (#20879)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/beta/resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md

---
title: "filePlanDescriptor resource type"
description: "Represents a group of columns associated with a particular retention label, to improve the manageability and organization of the content you need to label."
author: "sseth"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "security"
doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# filePlanDescriptor resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph.security

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

Represents a group of columns to improve the manageability and organization of the content you need to label.

Inherits from [microsoft.graph.entity](../resources/entity.md).

## Methods
|Method|Return type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|

> |[List filePlanDescriptors](../api/security-retentionlabel-list.md)|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md) collection|Get a list of the [microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md) objects and their properties.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[List filePlanDescriptors](../api/security-labelsroot-list-retentionlabel.md)|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md) collection|Get a list of the [microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md) objects and their properties.|
```

> |[List filePlanDescriptors](../api/security-labelsroot-list-retentionlabel.md)|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md) collection|Get a list of the [microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md) objects and their properties.|

Reviewer 2: The two methods you're linking to here are List and Create retentionLabels. If there should be List and Create methods on the filePlanDescriptors resource, are we missing those method topics?

Author: same as above.

> |[Create filePlanDescriptor](../api/security-retentionlabel-post.md)|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md)|Create a new [microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md) object.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[Create filePlanDescriptor](../api/security-labelsroot-post-retentionlabel.md)|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md)|Create a new [microsoft.graph.security.filePlanDescriptor](../resources/security-fileplandescriptor.md) object.|
```

---
title: "filePlanDescriptor resource type"

> description: "**TODO: Add Description**"

Reviewer: Please add valid descriptions.

|[Remove departmentTemplate](../api/security-delete-departmenttemplate.md)|None|Remove a [microsoft.graph.security.departmentTemplate](../resources/security-departmenttemplate.md) object.|
|[List filePlanReferenceTemplate](../api/security-list-fileplanreferencetemplate.md)|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanReferenceTemplate](../resources/security-fileplanreferencetemplate.md) collection|Get the filePlanReferenceTemplate resources from the filePlanReferenceTemplate navigation property.|
|[Add filePlanReferenceTemplate](../api/security-post-fileplanreferencetemplate.md)|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanReferenceTemplate](../resources/security-fileplanreferencetemplate.md)|Add filePlanReferenceTemplate by posting to the filePlanReferenceTemplate collection.|
|[Remove filePlanReferenceTemplate](../api/security-delete-fileplanreferencetemplate.md)|None|Remove a [microsoft.graph.security.filePlanReferenceTemplate](../resources/security-fileplanreferencetemplate.md) object.|

## Properties
|Property|Type|Description|

> |:---|:---|:---|

Reviewer: @sseth-msft  since we are updating the properties' descriptions and these at the same are either entities or complex types. Consider updating the descriptions in the corresponding files. Let me know if you have questions.

Author: done

> |authority|[microsoft.graph.security.authority](../resources/security-authority.md)|Specifies the underlying authority that describes the type of content to be retained and the retention schedule for it. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|authority|[microsoft.graph.security.authority](../resources/security-authority.md)|Specifies the underlying authority that describes the type of content to be retained and its retention schedule. |
```

> |category|[microsoft.graph.security.appliedCategory](../resources/security-appliedcategory.md)|Specifies a group of similar types of content in a certain department.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|category|[microsoft.graph.security.appliedCategory](../resources/security-appliedcategory.md)|Specifies a group of similar types of content in a particular department.|
```

> |appliedcategory|[microsoft.graph.security.appliedCategory](../resources/security-appliedcategory.md)|Represents the file plan descriptor of type category applied to a particular retention label.|

Reviewer: Your api.md and csdl show the name of this property as just "category".

> |appliedcategory|[microsoft.graph.security.appliedCategory](../resources/security-appliedcategory.md)|Represents the file plan descriptor of type category applied to a particular retention labels.|

Reviewer: Your api.md and csdl show the name of this property as just "category".

> |appliedcategory|[microsoft.graph.security.appliedCategory](../resources/security-appliedcategory.md)|Represents the file plan descriptor of type category applied to a particular retention labels.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|appliedcategory|[microsoft.graph.security.appliedCategory](../resources/security-appliedcategory.md)|Represents the file plan descriptor of type category applied to a particular retention label.|
```

> |citation|[microsoft.graph.security.citation](../resources/security-citation.md)|Specifies the unique identification defining a rule or regulation, following which, the label and content to which it is applied is scheduled to be retained or to be deleted. Additionally, you can specify the direct url of the citation and the jurisdiction or agency which published it.|

Reviewer: This description needs to be updated; it might need to be clarified for readers.

Author: Specifies the unique rule or regulation published by a jurisdiction, following which, the label and content to which it is applied is scheduled to be retained or to be deleted. Additionally, you can specify a direct link to the citation and the jurisdiction or agency which published it.
@Danielabom does this sound better?

> |citation|[microsoft.graph.security.citation](../resources/security-citation.md)|Specifies the unique rule or regulation published by a jurisdiction, following which, the label and content to which it is applied is scheduled to be retained or to be deleted. Additionally, you can specify a direct link to the citation and the jurisdiction or agency which published it.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|citation|[microsoft.graph.security.citation](../resources/security-citation.md)|The specific rule or regulation created by a jurisdiction used to determine whether certain labels and content should be retained or deleted. 
```

Reviewer: @sseth-msft, would it be valuable to update the "citation" complex type description, too?

> |department|[microsoft.graph.security.department](../resources/security-department.md)|Represents the file plan descriptor of type department applied to a particular retention labels.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|department|[microsoft.graph.security.department](../resources/security-department.md)|Represents the file plan descriptor of type department applied to a particular retention label.|
```

> |department|[microsoft.graph.security.department](../resources/security-department.md)|Specifies the parent business vertical or department of an organization for a label and in turn the content to which it will be applied.|

Reviewer: This description needs to be updated; it might need to be clarified for readers.

Author: @Danielabom - any suggestions on this?

Reviewer: A label assigned to content based on the department or business unit it belongs to within an organization

> |filePlanReference|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanReference](../resources/security-fileplanreference.md)|Specifies a unique identifier of a label category which co-relates it to the that organization’s retention schedule. It is an alpha-numeric identifier that maps the retention label to a row on their retention schedule. |

Reviewer: This description needs to be updated; it might need to be clarified for readers.

Author: modified the desc

## Relationships
|Relationship|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|

> |authorityTemplate|[microsoft.graph.security.authorityTemplate](../resources/security-authoritytemplate.md)|Represent the properties of 'authority' file plan descriptor.|

Reviewer: I cannot comment on the property until the description of the authorityTemplate file is updated.

> |categoryTemplate|[microsoft.graph.security.categoryTemplate](../resources/security-categorytemplate.md)|Represent the properties of 'category' file plan descriptor.|

Reviewer: I cannot comment on the property until the description of the categoryTemplate file is updated.
```

> |citationTemplate|[microsoft.graph.security.citationTemplate](../resources/security-citationtemplate.md)|Represent the properties of 'citation' file plan descriptor.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I cannot comment on the property until the description of the citationTemplate file is updated.

> |departmentTemplate|[microsoft.graph.security.departmentTemplate](../resources/security-departmenttemplate.md)|Represent the properties of 'department' file plan descriptor.|

Reviewer: I cannot comment on the property until the description of the departmentTemplate file is updated.

```

> |filePlanReferenceTemplate|[microsoft.graph.security.filePlanReferenceTemplate](../resources/security-fileplanreferencetemplate.md)|Represent the properties of 'file plan reference identification' file plan descriptor.|

Reviewer: I cannot comment on the property until the description of the filePlanReferenceTemplate file is updated.
